Technology-reflection
Can you share on why you are/were interested to study in this technology discipline (taking thisDS 100 class or pursuing a major, minor, or certificate)?
My interest in taking this DS 100 class was to pursue one of my majors (Data Science, Analytics, and Visualizations). I chose this major due to the applicability, dynamicity, and intellectual stimulation that is associated with it. I love to learn and to work with technology. I enjoy finding different ways to use it. It also helps me greatly in my pursuit of research (at various levels). In order to research properly, I must be able to analyze and visualize the data efficiently and effectively. This major is the best option for that.
Do you believe technology drives society or does society drive technology? Please explain your thoughts.
I believe that society drives technology in every aspect (for humans at least). The needs of society are met through technology. The thoughts of individuals of our societies question new uses for technology, that is true. However, most times those thoughts are linked in one form or another to society and how it would benefit them and/or the individual. The basic idea is that technology evolves with (and sometimes ahead of) society, but the reason is due to society. That is why society drives technology.
Is it possible to live a life or lifestyle without technology? Please explain your thoughts and provide any examples.
A life without technology is possible depending on the individual. If an individual does not already have technology established in their daily lives, then they can quite easily keep going. If a person has already developed a dependence on technology it is not so easy to accomplish getting rid of that newly created “need”. I have a dependence on technology because of my pacemaker. I need it to physically go on living. However, not everyone is like me. So as you can see there are varying degrees of need and dependence on technology. Therefore, each person is their own unique case. What can you give up? What are you willing to give up? Answer those, and you’ll begin to answer whether or not it’s possible to live a life without technology.
In your opinion, what is the next innovation or era in technology after this data-driven era?
	In my opinion, the next era in technology after the data-driven era is going to be something akin to action-based response and preemptive strategies based off of the data. A lot of technology will be focused around fixing problems such as climate change, poverty, food scarcity/security, etc. The data-driven era has quantified a lot of the major problems that society and humanity faces as a whole. Therefore, it will lead to a time where people are more focused on what actions can be taken in order to mitigate or ameliorate the problems that have been primarily exacerbated by human hands and human interactions. Seeing as most of our impact has been on the environment and each other, most of the focus will likely be directed towards that. I do not know what specific innovations are feasible to fix these issues, but that does seem like the next step in our development/evolution of technology.
